docs: additional entities state properties update (#1892)
ngrx/platform: projects/ngrx.io/content/guide/entity/recipes/additional-state-properties.md

# Additional Entity State Properties Update

It's possible to add extra properties to a `State` extending from `EntityState`. These properties must be updated manually. Just like in a non-entity state, we can update the added properties in the reducer. This can be done with or without using the `@ngrx/entity` helper functions.

> In the below example we are going to use the [Entity Adapter](https://ngrx.io/guide/entity/adapter) example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps below show you how to extend the [Entity Adapter](https://ngrx.io/guide/entity/adapter) example.
```

Usage:

> We are declaring the `selectedUserId` as an additional state property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Declare the `selectedUserId` as an additional property in the interface.
```

Author: updated the  content

<code-example header="user.reducer.ts">
import { EntityState, EntityAdapter, createEntityAdapter } from '@ngrx/entity';

export interface User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

export interface State extends EntityState&lt;User&gt; {
  // additional state property
  selectedUserId: number;
}

export const adapter: EntityAdapter&lt;User&gt; = createEntityAdapter&lt;User&gt;();
</code-example>

Then create an action to update the `selectedUserId`

<code-example header="user.actions.ts">
import { createAction, props } from '@ngrx/store';
import { Update } from '@ngrx/entity';

import { User } from '../models/user.model';

> export const selectUser = createAction('[User/API] Select User', props&lt;{ userId: string }&gt;());

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export const selectUser = createAction('[Users Page] Select User', props&lt;{ userId: string }&gt;());
```

Author: renamed

export const loadUsers = createAction('[User/API] Load Users', props&lt;{ users: User[] }&gt;());
</code-example>

The entity adapter is only used to update the `EntityState` properties. The additional state properties should be updated same as normal state properties, as the example below.

<code-example header="user.reducer.ts">
import { EntityState, EntityAdapter, createEntityAdapter } from '@ngrx/entity';
import { createReducer, on } from '@ngrx/store';
import { User } from '../models/user.model';
import * as UserActions from '../actions/user.actions';

export interface State extends EntityState&lt;User&gt; {
  // additional state property
  selectedUserId: number | null;
}

export const adapter: EntityAdapter&lt;User&gt; = createEntityAdapter&lt;User&gt;();

export const initialState: State = adapter.getInitialState({
  // additional entity state properties
  selectedUserId: null,
});

export const reducer = createReducer(initialState,
  on(UserActions.selectUser, (state, { userId }) => {
    return { ...state, selectedUserId: userId };
  }),
  on(UserActions.loadUsers, (state, { users }) => {

>       return adapter.addMany(users, { ...state, selectedUserId: null });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    return adapter.addMany(users, { ...state, selectedUserId: null });
```

Author: removed the space

In the below example we are going to use the [Entity Adapter](https://ngrx.io/guide/entity/adapter) example.

Usage:

we are declaring the `selectedUserId` as an additional entities state property.

<code-example header="user.reducer.ts">
import { EntityState, EntityAdapter, createEntityAdapter } from '@ngrx/entity';

export interface User {
  id: string;
  name: string;
}

export interface State extends EntityState&lt;User&gt; {
  // additional entities state properties
  selectedUserId: number;
}
...
export const adapter: EntityAdapter&lt;User&gt; = createEntityAdapter&lt;User&gt;({
  ...
});
</code-example>

Then create an action to update the `selectedUserId`

<code-example header="user.actions.ts">
import { createAction, props } from '@ngrx/store';
import { Update } from '@ngrx/entity';

import { User } from '../models/user.model';

...
export const selectUser = createAction('[User/API] Select User', props&lt;{ userId: string }&gt;());
export const loadUsers = createAction('[User/API] Load Users', props&lt;{ users: User[] }&gt;());
</code-example>

> Entity Adapter is only used to update the `EntityState` properties. Other than that additional state properties should be updated same as normal state properties like below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The entity adapter is only used to update the `EntityState` properties. The additional state properties should be updated same as normal state properties, as the example below.
```

<code-example header="user.reducer.ts">
import { EntityState, EntityAdapter, createEntityAdapter } from '@ngrx/entity';
import { createReducer, on } from '@ngrx/store';
import { User } from '../models/user.model';
import * as UserActions from '../actions/user.actions';

export interface State extends EntityState&lt;User&gt; {

>   // additional entities state properties

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // additional state property
```

  selectedUserId: number | null;
}

export const adapter: EntityAdapter&lt;User&gt; = createEntityAdapter&lt;User&gt;();

export const initialState: State = adapter.getInitialState({
  // additional entity state properties
  selectedUserId: null,
});

export const reducer = createReducer(initialState,

>   ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  
```

  on(UserActions.selectUser, (state, { userId }) => {
    return { ...state, selectedUserId: userId };
  }),
  on(UserActions.loadUsers, (state, { users }) => {
      return adapter.addMany(users, { ...state, selectedUserId: null });
  })
);

> export const getSelectedUserId = (state: State) => state.selectedUserId;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

# Additional Entity State Properties Update

> For beginners it is very confusing how to update the additional state properties using adapter. So we are going to see how to update the Additional Entity state properties. In the below example we are going to use the [Entity Adapter](https://ngrx.io/guide/entity/adapter) example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's possible to add extra properties to a `State` extending from `EntityState`. These properties must be updated manually. Just like in a non-entity state, we can update the added properties in the reducer. This can be done with or without using the `@ngrx/entity` helper functions.

In the below example we are going to use the [Entity Adapter](https://ngrx.io/guide/entity/adapter) example.
```

Author: updated

Usage:

we are declaring the `selectedUserId` as an additional entities state property.

<code-example header="user.reducer.ts">

> import { EntityState, EntityAdapter, createEntityAdapter } from '@ngrx/entity';

Reviewer 2: Could you update these examples in the "NgRx 8" way please.
For reference, you can take a look at https://github.com/ngrx/platform/pull/1856 or ask help here.

Author: updated to NgRx 8

import { Update } from '@ngrx/entity';

import { User } from '../models/user.model';

...

export const selectUser = createAction('[User/API] Select User', props&lt;{ id: string }&gt;());

...

const all = union({
  ...
  selectUser,
  ...
});
export type Union = typeof all;
</code-example>

Entity Adapter is only used to update the `EntityState` properties. Other than that additional state properties should be updated same as normal state properties like below.

<code-example header="user.reducer.ts">
import { EntityState, EntityAdapter, createEntityAdapter } from '@ngrx/entity';
import { User } from '../models/user.model';
import * as UserActions from '../actions/user.actions';

export interface State extends EntityState&lt;User&gt; {
  // additional entities state properties
  selectedUserId: number | null;
}

export const adapter: EntityAdapter&lt;User&gt; = createEntityAdapter&lt;User&gt;();

export const initialState: State = adapter.getInitialState({
  // additional entity state properties
  selectedUserId: null,
});

export function reducer(state = initialState, action: UserActions.Union): State {
  switch (action.type) {
    ...

     case UserActions.selectUser.type: {

>       return { ...state, selectedUserId: action.id};

Reviewer 2: I think we should also provide an example together with an entity helper function, e.g.

```ts
adapter.addMany(action.users, {...state, loaded: true});
```

Author: is this ok?
```javascript
on(UserActions.selectUser, state => {
   // updating without using entity helper function
    return { ...state, selectedUserId: action.id};
    OR
   // updating using entity helper function
    return adapter.addMany(action.users, { ...state, selectedUserId: action.id});
})
```

Reviewer 2: I think your example was good, but we need one more example:
```
on(UserActions.selectUser, (state, { userId }) => {
    return { ...state, selectedUserId: userId };
}),
on(UserActions.loadUsers, (state, { users }) => {
    return adapter.addMany(users, { ...state, selectedUserId: null});
}),
```

Author: updated
